W 12657814 restructuring preparingautomations se (#141)
mulesoft/docs-rpa: rpa-manager/modules/ROOT/pages/processautomation-prepare-deployment-credential.adoc

= Manage Credentials

Credentials store login data for external applications or web services. By using a credential, a bot can log in to an application during process runs. Passwords are encrypted. Only affiliated users can view, edit, and use the credentials.

You can create the following types of credentials:

* *AWS Credentials*
+

> For accessing Amazon Web Services to use them with xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-aws-document-processing.adoc[RPA Builder - Document Processing with AWS]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For accessing Amazon Web Services to use with xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-aws-document-processing.adoc[RPA Builder - Document Processing with AWS]:
```

* *OAuth Credentials*
+

> For accessing the Microsoft Outlook email application via Microsoft Azure with xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-mail-operations-mail-session-outlook-with-oauth.adoc[RPA Builder - Mail Session (Outlook with OAuth)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For accessing the Microsoft Outlook email application via Microsoft Azure with xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-mail-operations-mail-session-outlook-with-oauth.adoc[RPA Builder - Mail Session (Outlook with OAuth)]:
```

Author: changed all three, but with full stop instead of colon at the end

Reviewer: Oh yeah, I see now. (Sorry about the colons :)

* *User Account Credentials*
+
For accessing all other kinds of applications

Use descriptive names for credentials and only use them in an appropriate context. If, for example, the employee `Nina` has an account for two applications, `Letters` and `Numbers`, create either two credentials (`nina_account_letters` and `nina_account_numbers`) or a single one that includes both applications in its name (`nina_accounts_letters_numbers`).

Affiliated process team members can link global credentials to activity parameters in automations:

* xref:processautomation-deploy.adoc#test-configuration-link-globals[Linkable Activity Parameters in Test Configurations]
* xref:processautomation-deploy.adoc#production-configuration-link-globals[Linkable Activity Parameters in Production Configurations]

Editing or deleting a credential affects all configurations that use the credential.

Check the usage of a credential before changing or deleting it.

== Before You Begin

> * Ask an administrator to xref:usermanagement-manage.adoc#assign-privileges-to-a-user[assign you the needed privileges]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ask an administrator to xref:usermanagement-manage.adoc#assign-privileges-to-a-user[assign you the required privileges]:
```

Reviewer: (to match the table column head)

Author: changed all occurrences in docs

+
[cols="1,2"]
|===
|*Action* |*Required Privileges*

|Open the *Process Automation* module
|Process Automation Open

> |Create and change global variables and credentials that can be used in the test phase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Create and change global variables and credentials to use in the test phase
```

|Global Variables Create for Test phase, Global Variables Edit for Test phase

> |Create and change global variables and credentials that can be used in the production phase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Create and change global variables and credentials to use in the production phase
```

|Global Variables Create for Production phase, Global Variables Edit for Production phase

|Delete global variables and credentials
|Global Variables Delete

|===

> * If you have access to an Amazon Web Services (AWS) account and want to create AWS credentials for xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-aws-document-processing.adoc[RPA Builder - Document Processing with AWS], follow the instructions in https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html[AWS configuration basics^].

Reviewer: In general, if you create an in-line link, don't give the full topic name as the target text.

> * If you have access to a Microsoft Azure account and want to create OAuth credentials for xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-mail-operations-mail-session-outlook-with-oauth.adoc[RPA Builder - Mail Session (Outlook with OAuth)], create an application for Outlook, https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/client-developer/exchange-web-services/how-to-authenticate-an-ews-application-by-using-oauth[authenticate an EWS application by using OAuth^], and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/client-developer/legacy-protocols/how-to-authenticate-an-imap-pop-smtp-application-by-using-oauth[authenticate an IMAP, POP, or SMTP connection using OAuth^].

Reviewer: See line 49

Reviewer: I wonder if these would be easier to parse if you put them in an ordered list.

Author: They are :)

Reviewer: I mean an ordered sublist:
1. create
2. authenticate... OAuth
3. authenticate ... IMAP...

* If you want to use RPA Builder to xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-variable-handling-credentials-for-oauth.adoc#generating-an-oauth-refresh-token[generate a refresh token for your OAuth credentials], ask an administrator to xref:usermanagement-manage.adoc#assign-users-rpa-builder-access[assign you RPA Builder access].

== Create a Credential

> Create credentials with which a bot can log in to an external application during process runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create credentials to enable a bot to log in to an external application during process runs.
```

Reviewer: (not sure if this edit is correct)

Author: A bot could also log in without using Credentials. (e.g. if the login data is hard coded in the Workflow (not good practise)). I feel that my version might be more general, but I might be wrong.

Reviewer: OK, maybe:
Create credentials that a bot can use to log in...?

To create a credential:

. Open the *Credential Pool* view of the *Process Automation* module.
. Click *Create*.

> . [[form-create-credential]] Complete the *Create a New Credential* form:

Author: Yes, I suppose that's the term. If you edit a form of an object, it contains the same data as the form for creating an object. So I link to this line instead of doubling the content. (To use this inside a list without breaking the structure, the tag needs to be in the same line and not above) Does this answer your question?

> . [[form-create-credential]] Complete the *Create a New Credential* form:

Reviewer: Yes. Cool. I learned you can link to a step today! Thank you!

* [[form-create-credential-useraffiliation]] *User affiliation*
+

> Click to choose users that may view, edit, and use the credential. Add yourself so that you can also view, edit, and use the credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click to choose users who can view, edit, and use the credential. Add yourself so that you can also view, edit, and use the credential.
```

Reviewer: Style says to use select in this case:
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22select,%22%22choose%22

Author: This is an permission/security feature. That's why I explcitly wrote 'that may'. Is that not necessary?

Reviewer: Our style says to avoid modal words, but also says you can use it for permission. 

I think maybe make it explicit. Something like:
Select users to allow to view, edit, and use the credential.

It's up to you.

* *User group affiliation*
+

> Click to choose user groups whose users may view, edit, and use the credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select user groups to enable group members to view, edit, and use the credential.
```

* *Phase affiliation*
+
Phases in which the credential can be deployed. When you create or change the credential, your privileges determine which phases the user can select:
+
** *Test*
+
The credential can be deployed in the test phase.
+
** *Production*
+
The credential can be deployed in the production phase.

* *Type*
+

> Type of the global credential. The type of credential determines where you can use it. The original value defined in RPA Builder is typed. Select one of the following types:

Reviewer: What does "typed" mean in this context? 

Does it mean that the default value appears?

Author: Typed is an expression from computer science. 
See e.g. paragraph Typing in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variable_(computer_science)

Typed in this context means that the RPA developer assigned a type to an activity parameter. This type decides what values the variable can assume. For example, if the variable is of type integer, the user cannot give it a value of type float or type string. He can assign '42', but not '42.0' or 'forty-two'. This is important because not all operations you can think of are possible with all types of variables. Mathematical operations like addition and substraction can be performed on ints and floats but not on strings. (Some programming languages allow this. For example in python, you can compute 'bla'*3 which results in 'blablabla'). But RPA Builder can only use typed variables.

If 'typed' is a term used only in computer science and is not commonly understood, I could replace it with 'has a type'. 

Would that help?

Author: Or maybe use the term 'data type' like in https://docs.mulesoft.com/rpa-builder/6.1/toolbox-variable-handling-activity-parameters?

Reviewer: I think, if your audience will understand it, then use "typed". It just wasn't clear to me what this meant. My first thought is, what is the type of the original value?

Author: I created a story for that: [Explain variable types for non-coders [RPA Manager - Process Automation - Prepare Deployment]](https://gus.lightning.force.com/a07EE00001OQ596YAD)

> Type of the global credential. The type of credential determines where you can use it. The original value defined in RPA Builder is typed. Select one of the following types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type of the global credential, which determines where you can use it. The original value defined in RPA Builder is typed. Select one of the following types:
```

+
** *AWS Credentials*
+

> Use this credential for accessing Amazon Web Services. Fill in the client ID, client secret, and region. Using a session token is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this credential to access Amazon Web Services. Specify the client ID, client secret, and region. Using a session token is optional.
```

Reviewer: Do you need "Using"?

Author: What would be a better alternative?

Reviewer: "The session token is optional."

** *OAuth Credentials*
+

> Use this credential for accessing the Microsoft Outlook email application via Microsoft Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this credential to access the Microsoft Outlook email application via Microsoft Azure.
```

+
*** *OAuth Host*
+

> The host address used to get the credentials. The default address for Outlook services is `https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/`. This address might change if the customer uses a self hosted service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The host address used to get the credentials. The default address for Outlook services is `https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/`. This address might change if the customer uses a self-hosted service.
```

Reviewer: Who is the customer here?

Author: These text was originally written by the devlopers. I asked them and will concretize

Author: --> Hopefully the user creating the credentials will also be able to configure the 3rd party apps (as stated in the Before You Begin section). So I will replace every 'customer' with 'you'

*** *Client ID*
+

> To authenticate with the OAuth Host, an Azure application must be defined in the customer's space. This Azure application has an ID, which is unique in the entire OAuth Host space, and that allows users to explicitly grant or revoke access for this Azure application to their accounts.

Reviewer: Is it possible to make this active? Define an Azure application....

Author: not sure, see above

Reviewer: "define an Azure application in your space."

+
For more information about how to create this Azure application for Outlook, see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app[Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform^].
*** *Client Secret*
+

> This secret enables RPA Manager to prove to the OAuth Host that it received the permission to access user accounts on behalf of the registered Azure application. Without it, the authentication is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This secret enables RPA Manager to prove to the OAuth Host that it received permission to access user accounts on behalf of the registered Azure application. Without it, authentication is not possible.
```

*** *Redirect URI*
+

> The URI to which the OAuth Host redirects after the user completes the authentication attempt. This redirect URI must be registered with the Azure application. The OAuth Host allows the authentication only if the entered redirect URI matches one of the registered URIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URI to which the OAuth Host redirects after the user completes the authentication attempt. This redirect URI must be registered with the Azure application. The OAuth Host allows authentication only if the entered redirect URI matches one of the registered URIs.
```

*** *Scopes*
+

> The scopes define which permission the user grants to the Azure application. Grant the following permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scopes define which of the following permissions the user grants to the Azure application:
```

Reviewer: OK. It's just that the first sentence has "user grants" and the second sentence is imperative (implied "you grant"). It's unclear (to me) how they relate, which is why I was suggesting combining the two.

Author: Waiting for developer feedback on replacement suggestion:
Scopes are permission sets for an Azure application. Grant the following scopes and permissions to the Azure application you created for the authentication:

+
**** `offline_access`
+
(*Required*) Enables access via a refresh token, which you can use to repeatedly log in to the mail services without requiring user interaction each time.
**** `https://outlook.office.com/IMAP.AccessAsUser.All`
+
(*Required* when using IMAP) Enables reading and moving emails from the Outlook IMAP server.
**** `https://outlook.office.com/POP.AccessAsUser.All`
+
(*Required* when using POP3) Enables reading emails from the Outlook POP3 server.
**** `https://outlook.office.com/SMTP.Send`
+
(*Required* when using SMTP) Enables sending emails from the Outlook SMTP server.
**** `openid email`
+
Enables RPA Manager to automatically detect the email account used to log in to the Azure application. If this scope is omitted, you must provide an email in RPA Builder.
+
*** *E-Mail Address*
+

> Email address for accessing Outlook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the email address for accessing Outlook.
```

Reviewer: (To make the lists parallel.)

*** *Refresh Token*
+

> Refresh token generated with the authentication properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the refresh token generated with the authentication properties.
```

+
Learn how to xref:rpa-builder::toolbox-variable-handling-credentials-for-oauth.adoc#generating-an-oauth-refresh-token[generate an OAuth refresh token with RPA Builder].
** *User Account Credentials*
+

> Use this credential for accessing all other kinds of applications. Fill in the the username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this credential for accessing all other types of applications. Fill in the username and password.
```

. Click *OK*.

== Check the Usage of a Credential

> Before editing a credential, check its usage to avoid inadvertent side-effects. You can only check the usage a credential if you belong to the <<form-create-credential-useraffiliation, affiliated users>> of that credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before editing a credential, check its usage to avoid inadvertent side effects. You can check the usage of a credential only if you belong to the <<form-create-credential-useraffiliation, affiliated users>> of that credential.
```

To check the usage of a credential:

. Open the *Credential Pool* view of the *Process Automation* module.

> . Click the *Usage* icon image:usage-icon.png[binoculars symbol,1.5%,1.5%] in the table row of the credential you want to check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Usage* icon image:usage-icon.png[binoculars symbol,1.5%,1.5%] in the table row of the credential to check.
```

> A window with a table shows you the configurations in which the credential is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A window with a table shows you the configurations that use the credential.
```

==  Edit a Credential

Edit a credential to change its data. You cannot change the type of a credential. You can only edit a credential if you belong to the <<form-create-credential-useraffiliation, affiliated users>> of that credential.

> Check the usage of the credential first to avoid inadvertent side-effects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the usage of the credential first to avoid inadvertent side effects:
```

. Open the *Credential Pool* view of the *Process Automation* module.
. Click the *Edit* icon image:edit-icon.png[pen-to-square symbol,1.5%,1.5%] in the table row of the credential you want to edit.
. Change data in the *Edit the Credential* form.
+
For an explanation of the properties, see <<form-create-credential, *Create a Credential*>>.
. Click *Save*.

The credential is changed everywhere it is used.

== Delete a Credential

Delete credentials that are no longer needed. You cannot delete credentials linked in configurations. You can only delete a credential if you belong to the <<form-create-credential-useraffiliation, affiliated users>> of that credential.

To delete a credential:

. Open the *Credential Pool* view of the *Process Automation* module.

> . Click the *Delete* icon image:delete-icon.png[trash symbol,1.5%,1.5%] in the table row of the credential you want to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Delete* icon image:delete-icon.png[trash symbol,1.5%,1.5%] in the table row of the credential to delete.
```
